---
layout: post
title:      "Why I Decided To Learn Software Engineering"
date:       2020-07-29 05:53:18 +0000
permalink:  why_i_decided_to_learn_software_engineering
---


I majored in Management in college, worked a few years in tourism and then went on to do a MBA in China. Upon graduation, I got a job working in banking, in Research & Product Development. While at this job, I worked closely with the IT department on many IT related projects and slowly began to realize how much I enjoyed researching tech products and how they are transforming the world of banking and beyond. I became interested in being, not just a user of technology, but an innovator and possibiliy tech entrepreneur one day. But ofcourse, I had rudimentary knowledge of technology and coding at that point. 

Depite my desire to learn and possibly make a career change into tech, I did not pursue it right away as I wasn't sure where to start. In fact, I got into education instead! While living in China, I had started teaching English as a foreign language and loved the laid back schedule and flexibility of it. So,when I moved to the United States, I continued to teach. The job was fairly well paid and the schedule not very intensive. It allowed me to spend a lot of time with my husband and daughter, which was/and is quite important to me. Although it was beneficial and I did enjoyed it, I always saw it as a  temporary job rather than something I want to develop into a career. 

Then, the pandemic hit and I got laid off. It was a time of great self-reflection. At first, I tried to transition back into the world of business but realized that, not only had I been away from it for a few years, but also that I had a lot of theoretical knowledge from school but not much experience. Additionally, my foreign degrees and foreign experience, coupled with the current state of the job market due to the pandemic, weren't opening many doors of employment. So, I decided to use the time to finally be more proactive in my desire to change my career. I had some experience coding in C++ and in Python but wasn't proficient in either. So, I began looking for an online bootcamps that I could enroll in that would offer a structured program, networking opportunities an opportunity to build a portfolio, and career coaching. Upon researching, I found out that there were a scholarship being offered to women interested in making a career change into tech. I applied for for the scholarship and got approved. Flatiron (which I was already considering) happened to be one of the schools that the scholarship bureau partnered with. So, I decided to finally take the leap of faith and start this journey to becoming a software engineer! I believe that this is a journey that will not only be personally fulfilling but also one that will move my family and I towards greater financial stability.
